# Tempura Docker

This guide helps creating Docker Images and Containers for the Tempura Testnet.

### Changes :factory:

* download of Tempura binaries instead of Peercoin ones
* dowwload of ElectrumX fork where Tempura has been added as supported coin
* download of btc-rpc-explorer fork adapted to run with Tempura
* `RUN make` instead of `RUN make -j4` to avoid compiler killed for having too many threads
* docker-compose file configured to combine Tempura and ElectrumX

### Setup a Tempura node :whale:

1. Move into `tempura` folder and run `docker build -t tempura .` to compile a new **Docker Image** for tempura. 

2. Initialize and configure a **Docker Container** using:

```sh
docker run -p 9903:9903 -p 9904:9904 --name tempura-testnet -d tempura \
  -rpcallowip=0.0.0.0/0 \
  -rpcpassword=<PASSWORD> \
  -rpcuser=<USER> \
  -testnet=1 \
  -nominting
```

3. **Check** if you can reach the defult RPC port (9904 for testnet) running this command:

```sh
curl --user <USER>:<PASSWORD> --data-binary '{"jsonrpc": "1.0", "id":"curltest", "method": "getblockchaininfo", "params": [] }'  -H 'content-type: text/plain;' localhost:9904/
```

and you should obtain something like this:

> {"result":{"chain":"main","blocks":457576,"headers":457576,"bestblockhash":"17a24a8073c8f6bc422fc4f6fe8c76da892d0693d0ad1aa499e4b9b2c047fe2b","difficulty":1710444103.933884,"mediantime":1571034759,"verificationprogress":0.9999997034325266,"initialblockdownload":false,"chainwork":"00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000336b3807456f56","size_on_disk":700956211,"pruned":false,"warnings":""},"error":null,"id":"curltest"}

4. Once the server is running, you can interact with the node using **peercoin-cli** from the host machine, since `-p` option opens port-forwarding for the guest operating system. Alternatively from the Container itself, opening Docker Desktop and clicking on the "CLI" button next to the corresponding Container.

5. To **stop** the node, giving it time to arrest correctly and avoiding a long startup next time, check all running Containers with `docker ps` and stop it with `docker stop -t 500 <PROCESS_ID>`.

### Setup a Tempura node with ElectrumX server :whale:

1. Move into `tempura` folder and run `docker build -t tempura .` to compile a new **Docker Image** for Tempura. 

2. Move into `electrumx` folder and run `docker build -t electrumx .` to compile a new **Docker Image** for ElectrumX. 

3. Move into the main folder and run `docker-compose up -d` to **combine** the two images into a single Container.

Note that Tempura Wallet requires the server to provide valid domain SSL certificates and not the ones automatically generated by the server, which are self-signed. To generate them check [Certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/docs/index.html#) documentation.

To run ElectumX alone try: `docker run -v <PATH_TO_DIR>:/data -e DAEMON_URL=<USER>:<PASSWORD>@peercoind:9903 -e COIN=TempuraTestnet -e NET=testnet -p 50002:50002 --name testnet-tempura-server electrumx`

### Setup the Explorer :whale:

The actual configuration of the Dockerfile requires Tempura and ElectrumX already running.

1. Move into `btc-rpc-explorer` folder and run `docker build -t btc-rpc-explorer .` to compile a new **Docker Image** for the Explorer. 

2. Initialize and configure a **Docker Container** using: `docker run -it -p 80:80  -d btc-rpc-explorer` and if your hosting machine is Linux add the option `--add-host=host.docker.internal:host-gateway` to set host.docker.internal variable as the localhost IP of your machine (which is done automatically on MacOS and Win), to be able to connect to local ports where the other services are listening.

Now, if everything went right, you should be able to connect to your server and see the Explorer.

### Share Images across devices :computer:

You can add repositories to your Docker Account where you can push and pull Images. Before pushing you have to re-tag your existing image with `docker tag <EXISTING_IMAGE> <DOCKER_USER>/<DOCKER_REPO>:<TAG>` and then push the image with `docker push <DOCKER_USER>/<DOCKER_REPO>:<TAG>`.

Alternatively you can manually export your Docker Image with `docker save tempura > my-image.tar` and load it on another machine using `docker load < my-image.tar`.

### References :books:

* Repo forked from: peercoin/[docker-peercoind](https://github.com/peercoin/docker-peercoind.git) and peercoin/[electrumx-docker](https://github.com/peercoin/electrumx-docker) 
* Docker docs: [Repositories](https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/repos/)
* [How to create a Docker Image](https://www.linux.com/training-tutorials/how-create-docker-image)
* [How to share Docker Images with others](https://www.cloudsavvyit.com/12326/how-to-share-docker-images-with-others)

